Master Playbook 1: Global Cyber Defense & Rapid Response
[Focus: NIS2 Compliance & Global Reporting Protocols]
The Objective: To demonstrate 100% operational readiness for the European NIS2 directive, specifically focusing on the "Early Warning" mandate.

The 24-Hour "Flash Report" Template:

Status: CRITICAL | Incident ID: SENTINEL-2026-ALPHA

Telemetry Source: Automated detection via sentinel_hunter.py on macOS M-Silicon.

Impact Assessment: Initial triage of cross-border data flows and potential exfiltration of sensitive EU PII.

The "Compliance Timer" Logic:

Script: compliance_timer.py

Function: A countdown ledger that triggers automated alerts at the T-minus 4-hour mark of the NIS2 24-hour deadline. This ensures that no administrative "fog of war" results in a regulatory fine.

Tactical Artifact:

"The Sentinel Early Warning System": A detailed workflow showing how raw kernel telemetry is converted into a legally defensible incident report within 60 minutes of detection.
MASTER PLAYBOOK 1: GLOBAL CYBER DEFENSE & RAPID RESPONSE
Operational Doctrine for NIS2 Early Warning & Cross‑Border Incident Reporting
Author: Melissa Wozney — Identity Auditor, Threat Sentinel, SOC Automation Specialist
Version: 2026.1
Classification: INTERNAL — EU‑Aligned Cyber Defense Framework

1. Mission Objective
To demonstrate full operational readiness for the European NIS2 Directive, specifically the Early Warning requirement mandating that organizations notify authorities within 24 hours of detecting a significant cybersecurity incident.

This playbook ensures:

No missed deadlines

No regulatory exposure

No “fog of war” during crisis

Automated escalation and reporting

Legally defensible documentation

2. 24‑Hour Flash Report Template (NIS2 Early Warning)
Status: CRITICAL
Incident ID: SENTINEL-2026-ALPHA  
Detection Timestamp (UTC): 2026‑04‑21 02:13:45
Compliance Deadline: +24 hours (NIS2 Early Warning)

2.1 Telemetry Source
Automated detection via: sentinel_hunter.py  
Platform: macOS M‑Silicon
Detection Vector: Kernel‑level telemetry + behavioral anomaly scoring

Triggered Rule:

“Cross‑border data flow anomaly exceeding baseline thresholds.”

2.2 Impact Assessment
Preliminary Findings:

Suspicious outbound traffic to a non‑EU endpoint

Possible exfiltration of EU PII (GDPR‑relevant)

Activity originated from a privileged identity

Behavior consistent with credential compromise or session hijacking

Risk Level: HIGH
Regulatory Exposure: NIS2, GDPR, eIDAS2 (identity integrity)

3. The Compliance Timer Logic (Automation Layer)
File: compliance_timer.py
Purpose:
To enforce the NIS2 24‑hour reporting window with machine‑enforced countdown logic.

Core Functions:
3.1 Countdown Ledger
Tracks:

T+0 (Detection)

T+4 (Internal escalation deadline)

T+12 (Draft report deadline)

T+20 (Legal review deadline)

T+24 (Mandatory NIS2 Early Warning submission)

3.2 Automated Alerts
At T‑4 hours, the script triggers:

Email alerts

Slack/Teams alerts

On‑call pager escalation

“Red Banner” compliance warning

3.3 Example Code Snippet
python
import datetime
import time

DEADLINE_HOURS = 24

def start_timer(detection_time):
    deadline = detection_time + datetime.timedelta(hours=DEADLINE_HOURS)
    while True:
        remaining = deadline - datetime.datetime.utcnow()
        hours_left = remaining.total_seconds() / 3600

        if hours_left <= 4:
            trigger_alert("T-minus 4 hours to NIS2 deadline!")

        if hours_left <= 0:
            trigger_alert("NIS2 deadline reached — report must be submitted NOW.")
            break

        time.sleep(300)  # check every 5 minutes

def trigger_alert(message):
    print(f"[COMPLIANCE ALERT] {message}")
4. Tactical Artifact: The Sentinel Early Warning System
This is the end‑to‑end workflow showing how raw telemetry becomes a legally defensible incident report within 60 minutes.

4.1 Sentinel Early Warning System — 60‑Minute Workflow
Phase 1 — Detection (Minute 0–5)
Kernel telemetry flags anomalous outbound traffic

sentinel_hunter.py correlates:

Identity

Device

Geo‑location

Data classification

Event is assigned Incident ID: SENTINEL-2026-ALPHA

Phase 2 — Automated Triage (Minute 5–15)
log_parser.py extracts structured fields

ioc_extractor.py identifies:

IPs

Domains

Hashes

Risk score generated (0–100)

If score > 70 → auto‑escalation to CRITICAL

Phase 3 — Identity Verification (Minute 15–25)
Identity Auditor module checks:

MFA logs

Session tokens

Impossible travel

Privilege escalation

Flags any identity anomalies

Phase 4 — Legal & Compliance Prep (Minute 25–40)
Compliance Timer starts

NIS2 Early Warning template auto‑populated

GDPR impact assessment triggered

Cross‑border data flow analysis initiated

Phase 5 — Draft Report Generation (Minute 40–55)
System generates:

Executive summary

Timeline

Indicators of compromise

Impact assessment

Containment actions

Analyst reviews and signs off

Phase 6 — Submission Ready (Minute 55–60)
Report exported to NIS2‑compliant format

Legal review (if required)

Ready for submission to national CSIRT authority

5. Visual Workflow (Described for GitHub Screenshots)
Screenshot 1 — “Sentinel Detection Console”
Shows:

Red alert banner

Incident ID

Source IP

Data classification: “EU PII — HIGH SENSITIVITY”

Screenshot 2 — “Compliance Timer Dashboard”
Shows:

Countdown clock

T‑4 hour warning

Escalation chain

Screenshot 3 — “Early Warning Report Generator”
Shows:

Auto‑filled fields

Timeline

IOCs

Impact summary

Screenshot 4 — “Identity Auditor Panel”
Shows:

User session anomalies

MFA failures

Geo‑location mismatch

6. Lessons Learned
Automation eliminates human error during crisis.

Compliance timers prevent regulatory violations.

Identity telemetry is essential for cross‑border incident analysis.

A 60‑minute reporting pipeline is achievable with the right tooling.
